Alright, the last thing we're going to add to our application is local notifications.
So that way, if a user forgets to log their information on a specific day,
at eight o'clock that day or really,
whatever time you specify,
they'll get a local notification on their phones or just a pop up on their phone saying,
"Hey don't forget to log your information."
So what we're going to do is, first,
let's go ahead and grab AsyncStorage,
and then, we need to grab a few different properties off of expo.
Notifications is the first and Permissions is the second.
And then let's go ahead and create a NOTIFICATION_KEY just like we did earlier,
and we will just call this, UdaciFitness:notifications.
All right, so now we're going to make,
let's go down here to the bottom,
we are going to make three different methods.
The first, we're going to call it clearLocalNotifications.
The second, we're going to call, createNotification.
And the third, we are going to call and export, setLocalNotification.
So let's go ahead and do createNotification first.
This is basically just going to return an object,
which represents the notification.
So we will say, the title is going to be hand-wave because I like those,
as you've seen, Log your stats.
The body, actually, let's save the hand-wave for the body.
The body is going to say hand-wave,
don't forget to log your stats for today.
ios, sound, of course,
that's going to be true,
we want to make a sound.
And then Android, we have a few different options here.
We can say sounds.
Of course, priority is going to be super high.
Sticky will say false, we don't want to stay.
Vibrate, absolutely. All right,
so this is going to represent our notification.
And so now, what we're going to do in
setLocalNotification is we want to check if we've already set a local notification.
We don't want to set another one because that means the user would
then get two notifications or three and on and on.
So what we're going to do is if we're going to use AsyncStorage to
check using getItem to see if our NOTIFICATION_KEY has been set,
so we'll grab the data, and then from here,
we will just call JSON.parse actually.
And then we have,
if this is a thing or not,
So we have the data, we can say,
if data equals null,
meaning we haven't already set up a local notification,
then what we want to do is just as we saw in a previous video,
we want to use Permissions.
This should be Permissions,
and we will say, askAsync.
The permission we want to ask is Permissions.NOTIFICATIONS.
When we get back,
whatever they said, that's going to come in as the status.
And then now, what we will do is we will say,
if the status is granted,
we are good to go.
If the status is granted,
then what we want to say is Notifications.cancelAllScheduledNotificationsAsync.
So if we've already established a notification,
go ahead and cancel that.
And then what we want to do is we're going to make this date right here.
So tomorrow, we're going to call setDate on it,
and the reason for this is because we want to get
a time tomorrow at let's say eight o'clock.
So we'll say, tomorrow.setHours and tomorrow.setMinutes.
So exactly at eight o'clock,
this tomorrow object is going to represent.
And then we will say, Notifications.scheduleLocalNotificationsAsync.
The very first thing we're going to pass it is createNotification,
the invocation of that,
so we get back this object,
and then we're going to pass it some options.
Time that we wanted to run is going to be tomorrow.
Repeat, we want it to repeat on the daily.
And then, down here, after that,
what we want to do is we want to make sure that we
establish inside of AsyncStorage that we have set up this local notification.
So we will say, setItem.
NOTIFICATION_KEY is going to be,
we'll go ahead and stringify this just because true.
So this looks good assuming we don't have any typos anywhere.
Let's see. All right, so we are good.
So again, what's happening here is when we call setLocalNotification,
which we will do in the next video,
it's going to go, and make sure we haven't already set a local notification.
If we haven't and the permission is granted,
we'll clear all the local notifications just in case we don't set two.
We create a date object that's going to represent
tomorrow at eight o'clock and then calling scheduleLocalNotificationsAsync.
We pass a createNotification when we want it to go
off mand then we set that in local storage.
Now, the last thing we need to do is build out our clearLocalNotification function.
So this one is going to be pretty straightforward.
What we're going to do is we're going to call AsyncStorage.removeItem.
What we're going to remove is the NOTIFICATION_KEY.
And then when that's finished,
what we want to do is call,
Notifications.cancelAllScheduleNotificationsAsync to cancel,
as it says, all notifications.